:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       CBF6484C-3D69-43FB-9857-E2381304658D
:END:
#+title: QT4 CG Meeting 039 Agenda 2023-06-20
#+author: Norm Tovey-Walsh
#+filetags: :qt4cg:
#+options: html-style:nil h:6 toc:nil
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
#+options: author:nil email:nil creator:nil timestamp:nil
#+startup: showall

[[../][Agenda index]] / [[https://qt4cg.org][QT4CG.org]] / [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard][Dashboard]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues][GH Issues]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls][GH Pull Requests]]

* Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: agenda
:END:

This meeting will be hosted on Zoom at 16:00BST (17:00CEST, 11:00EDT, 08:00PDT).

See the [[https://qt4cg.org/meeting/logistics.html][meeting logistics]] page for details.

* Administrivia
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: administrivia
:END:

** Roll call
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: roll-call
:END:

** Approve the agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: accept-agenda
:END:

** Approve minutes of previous meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: approve-minutes
:END:

Minutes of [[../../minutes/2023/06-13.html][the previous meeting]].

** Next meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: next-meeting
:END:

This meeting is planned for
20 June,
the following meeting is scheduled for
27 June.

Any regrets for the following meeting?

The CG will take a vacation for four weeks in August. We will not
meet on 1, 8, 15, or 22 August.

** Review of open action items [1/8]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-actions
:END:

(Items marked [X] are believed to have been closed via email before
this agenda was posted.)

+ [ ] QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group
+ [ ] QT4CG-016-08: RD to clarify how namespace comparisons are performed.
+ [ ] QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
  + This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
    subsequent discussion.
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-01: RD+DN to draft spec prose for the “divide and conquer” approach outlined in issue #399
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
  See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449][#449]]
+ [ ] QT4CG-035-01: CG to make a few more (slightly more complex) ~map:keys~ examples.
+ [ ] QT4CG-035-02: CG to fix the type signature and examples in ~map:filter~.
+ [X] QT4CG-038-01: NW to attempt to craft some sort of proposal for dealing with stale issues.
  + https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-xslt-40/2023Jun/0012.html

** Review of open pull requests and issues
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-pull-requests
:END:

The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538][#538]]: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-491][#491]]: Fix more examples in the FO 4.0 spec
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-368][#368]]: 129: Context item generalized to context value

The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-533][#533]]: 413: Spec for CSV parsing with fn:parse-csv()
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-547][#547]]: Action QT4CG-036-02: Further elaboration of the rules for function identity
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-546][#546]]: Attempt to implement expanding the allowed character repertoire
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-555][#555]]: Revised narrative of normalization steps for serialization

The following editorial or otherwise minor PRs were open when this
agenda was prepared. The chair proposes that these can be merged
without discussion. If you think discussion is necessary, please say
so.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-549][#549]]: 526 load xquery module
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-552][#552]]: Editorial: Updates to back matter and status section of F+O spec
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-551][#551]]: Drop the fn:differences function
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-550][#550]]: 548: require parens around lambda arguments

Added [[https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-xslt-40/2023Jun/0023.html][by amendment]]:

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-558][#558]] Added fn:items-X cross-references
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-559][#559]] Minor editorial edits

It has been proposed that the following issues be [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/labels/Propose%20Closing%20with%20No%20Action][closed without action]].
If you think discussion is necessary, please say so.

+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/425][#425]]: Structural proposal (ThinLayer™️) : Add a layer of thin spec between XPath and the XPath Derived Language
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/399][#399]]: fn:deep-equal: Using Multilevel Hierarchy and Abstraction when designing and specifying complex functions
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/376][#376]]: add documentation prefix attribute to xsl:stylesheet
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/331][#331]]: Extend fn:path to support arrays and maps.
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/112][#112]]: Abbreviate map:function($someMap) to $someMap?function()
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/82][#82]]: Should the mode attribute for apply-templates in templates of enclosed modes default to #current?
+ Iss [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52][#52]]: Allow record(*) based RecordTests

The following PRs appear to be candidates for a future XSLT-focussed
meeting.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470][#470]]: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412][#412]]: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match

* Technical Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: technical-agenda
:END:

This week’s focus is on two large PRs related to CSV and JSON. We
expect Matt Patterson to join us for the CSV discussions.

** PR #533: 413: Spec for CSV parsing with fn:parse-csv()
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-6EE5D66A-0FA3-49DB-BDED-A68A7686E297
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-533][#533]]

** PR #529: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-BCD63E84-ABFD-4418-9535-4788AC93C951
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]

* Any other business
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: any-other-business
:END:
