:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       88413533-BE36-4F7E-AB3A-51FD08E44628
:END:
#+title: QT4 CG Meeting 040 Agenda 2023-06-27
#+author: Norm Tovey-Walsh
#+filetags: :qt4cg:
#+options: html-style:nil h:6 toc:nil
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
#+options: author:nil email:nil creator:nil timestamp:nil
#+startup: showall

[[../][Agenda index]] / [[https://qt4cg.org][QT4CG.org]] / [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard][Dashboard]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues][GH Issues]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls][GH Pull Requests]]

* Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: agenda
:END:

This meeting will be hosted on Zoom at 16:00BST (17:00CEST, 11:00EDT, 08:00PDT).

See the [[https://qt4cg.org/meeting/logistics.html][meeting logistics]] page for details.

* Administrivia
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: administrivia
:END:

** Roll call
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: roll-call
:END:

** Approve the agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: accept-agenda
:END:

** Approve minutes of previous meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: approve-minutes
:END:

Minutes of [[../../minutes/2023/06-20.html][the previous meeting]].

** Next meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: next-meeting
:END:

This meeting is planned for
27 June,
the following meeting is scheduled for
4 July.

Any regrets for the following meeting? That’s Independence Day in the United States.

The CG will take a vacation for four weeks in August. We will not
meet on 1, 8, 15, or 22 August.

** Review of open action items [0/5]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-actions
:END:

(Items marked [X] are believed to have been closed via email before
this agenda was posted.)

+ [ ] QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group
+ [ ] QT4CG-016-08: RD to clarify how namespace comparisons are performed.
+ [ ] QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
  + This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
    subsequent discussion.
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-01: RD+DN to draft spec prose for the “divide and conquer” approach outlined in issue #399
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
  See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449][#449]]
+ [ ] QT4CG-039-01: NW to schedule discussion of issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52][#52]], /Allow record(*) based RecordTests/

** Review of open pull requests and issues
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-pull-requests
:END:

The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538][#538]]: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-491][#491]]: Fix more examples in the FO 4.0 spec
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-368][#368]]: 129: Context item generalized to context value
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-546][#546]]: Attempt to implement expanding the allowed character repertoire

The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-533][#533]]: 413: Spec for CSV parsing with fn:parse-csv()
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-547][#547]]: Action QT4CG-036-02: Further elaboration of the rules for function identity
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-555][#555]]: Revised narrative of normalization steps for serialization

The following editorial or otherwise minor PRs were open when this
agenda was prepared. The chair proposes that these can be merged
without discussion. If you think discussion is necessary, please say
so.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-569][#569]] Minor editorial corrections, XDM chh. 1, 2
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-568][#568]] Issue #567 - schema for xslt40
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-562][#562]] 361: Named arguments: $input vs. $value

It has been proposed that the following issues be [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/labels/Propose%20Closing%20with%20No%20Action][closed without action]].
If you think discussion is necessary, please say so.

+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/457][#457]] Support parsing numeric, alphabetic, and additive number systems. Feature
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/175][#175]] In XQuery, allow a semicolon at the end of the module Enhancement
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/106][#106]] Decorators' support Discussion

The following PRs appear to be candidates for a future XSLT-focussed
meeting.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470][#470]]: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412][#412]]: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match

* Technical Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: technical-agenda
:END:

The chair proposes to take a week off from discussing CSV and instead
focus this week on resolving the ~xdm-to-json~ PR.

** PR #529: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: pr-529
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]

* Any other business
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: any-other-business
:END:
