:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       11EC720C-0EAF-4BBD-B1A9-AD08F069695D
:END:
#+title: QT4 CG Meeting 050 Agenda 2023-10-17
#+author: Norm Tovey-Walsh
#+filetags: :qt4cg:
#+options: html-style:nil h:6 toc:nil
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
#+options: author:nil email:nil creator:nil timestamp:nil
#+startup: showall

[[../][Agenda index]] / [[https://qt4cg.org][QT4CG.org]] / [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard][Dashboard]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues][GH Issues]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls][GH Pull Requests]]

* Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: agenda
:END:

This meeting will be hosted on Zoom at 16:00BST (17:00CEST, 11:00EDT, 08:00PDT).

See the [[https://qt4cg.org/meeting/logistics.html][meeting logistics]] page for details.

* Administrivia
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: administrivia
:END:

** Roll call
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: roll-call
:END:

** Approve the agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: accept-agenda
:END:

** Approve minutes of previous meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: approve-minutes
:END:

Minutes of [[../../minutes/2023/10-10.html][the previous meeting]].

** Next meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: next-meeting
:END:

This meeting is planned for
17 October,
the following meeting is scheduled for
24 October.

Any regrets for the following meeting?

** Review of open action items [1/12]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-actions
:END:

(Items marked [X] are believed to have been closed via email before
this agenda was posted.)

+ [ ] QT4CG-045-02: RD to address comments on HTML namespaces in another PR
+ [ ] QT4CG-046-01: MK to continue the work on #129 for the other specs (we accepted #703)
+ [ ] QT4CG-046-04: CG to flesh out changes related to annotations in other parts of the specs
+ [ ] QT4CG-046-05: NW to updated parse-uri to use decode-from-uri (issue #566)
+ [ ] QT4CG-048-01: MK - to identify what happens with the mode default rule behaviours. 
+ [ ] QT4CG-048-02: MK to clean up the proposal for adding @as to xsl:sequence and elsewhere
+ [ ] QT4CG-049-01: MK to make sure CastTarget is defined locally
+ [ ] QT4CG-049-02: NW to sort out what has made the dashboard so unwieldy

** Review of open pull requests and issues
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-pull-requests
:END:

*** Blocked 
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: blocked
:END:

The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538][#538]]: 480: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI

*** Merge without discussion
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: merge-without-discussion
:END:

The following PRs are editorial, small, or otherwise appeared to be
uncontroversial when the agenda was prepared. The chairs propose that
these can be merged without discussion. If you think discussion is
necessary, please say so.

+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-752][#752]] Fix "for member" grammar problems
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-751][#751]] See ACTION QT4CG-048-01: xsl:mode/@as with built-in templates
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-744][#744]] XQFO Examples: minor fixes, formatting
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-741][#741]] Fix copy and paste errors in describing type patterns
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-740][#740]] Rename break-when to split-when, plus minor editorial cleanup
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-739][#739]] Apply review comment changes to the HTML DOM XDM mapping.

NW has reservations about E and L (and Q for that matter) but won’t
object if he’s alone.

+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-749][#749]] Add string literals E".." and L".." to control entity expansion

*** Close without action
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: close-without-action
:END:

It has been proposed that the following issues be [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/labels/Propose%20Closing%20with%20No%20Action][closed without action]].
If you think discussion is necessary, please say so.

None this week.

*** XSLT focused
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: xslt-focused
:END:

The following PRs appear to be candidates for a future XSLT-focussed
meeting.

+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470][#470]]: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT
+ [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412][#412]]: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match

These issues identify the XSLT-focused changes that have been made to
the specifications but which have not been established by the
community group as the status quo.

+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/742][#742]]: xsl:function-library: keep, drop, or refine?
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/169][#169]]: Handling of duplicate keys in xsl:map Enhancement
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/168][#168]]: XSLT Extension Instructions invoking Named Templates

*** Substantive PRs
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: substantive
:END:

The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-737][#737]]: 295 Boost the capability of recursive record types
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-736][#736]]: 730: Clarify (and correct) rules for maps as instances of function types
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-734][#734]]: 517: fn:chain
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-719][#719]]: 413: Spec for CSV-related functions
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-659][#659]]: 647: schema location hints
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-635][#635]]: 451: Schema compatibility
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to elements-to-maps()


*** Proposed for V4.0
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: proposed-40
:END:

The following issues are labled “proposed for V4.0”.

+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/716][#716]]: Generators in XPath
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/479][#479]]: fn:deep-equal: Input order
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/340][#340]]: fn:format-number: Specifying decimal format
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/260][#260]]: array:index-of
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/238][#238]]: Support Invisible XML
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/130][#130]]: New super/union type xs:binary?

* Technical Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: technical-agenda
:END:

** PR #719: 413: Spec for CSV-related functions
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-D878792E-2C8B-42B8-A562-E3AB660EE486
:END:

See [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-719][PR #719]].

Status update with MP. Short discussion of recent comments about
functions.

** PR #659: 647: schema location hints
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-95654E75-AFDA-48D3-9670-C2F17E20F4AD
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-659][#659]].

** PR #635: 451: Schema compatibility
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-11C82C03-1D26-477A-82DE-58610580CB1B
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-635][#635]].

** PR #529: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to elements-to-maps()
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-F55BCEAA-5494-4C17-AC02-D359A0F667A1
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]].

** PR #734: 517: fn:chain
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-47C04F37-7E91-490D-BCD6-848B3184FA21
:END:

See [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-734][#734]].

* Any other business
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: any-other-business
:END:
