:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       41ED51E6-C0A7-47EE-ABCA-11A87DA1B512
:END:
#+title: QT4 CG Meeting 052 Agenda 2023-10-31
#+author: Norm Tovey-Walsh
#+filetags: :qt4cg:
#+options: html-style:nil h:6 toc:nil
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
#+options: author:nil email:nil creator:nil timestamp:nil
#+startup: showall

[[../][Agenda index]] / [[https://qt4cg.org][QT4CG.org]] / [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard][Dashboard]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues][GH Issues]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls][GH Pull Requests]]

* Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: agenda
:END:

This meeting will be hosted on Zoom at 16:00BST (17:00CEST, 11:00EDT, 08:00PDT).

See the [[https://qt4cg.org/meeting/logistics.html][meeting logistics]] page for details.

ATTENTION: Europe and the United Kingdom switched from daylight saving time
to standard time on Sunday, October 29, 2023. The meeting on Tuesday, 31 October 2023,
will occur /one hour later/ in The United States.

* Administrivia
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: administrivia
:END:

** Roll call
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: roll-call
:END:

** Approve the agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: accept-agenda
:END:

** Approve minutes of previous meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: approve-minutes
:END:

Minutes of [[../../minutes/2023/10-24.html][the previous meeting]].

** Next meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: next-meeting
:END:

This meeting is planned for
31 October,
the following meeting is scheduled for
7 November.

DN gives possible regrets for this meeting.

Any regrets for the following meeting?

** Review of open action items [2/7]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-actions
:END:

(Items marked [X] are believed to have been closed via email before
this agenda was posted.)

+ [ ] QT4CG-046-01: MK to continue the work on #129 for the other specs (we accepted #703)
+ [ ] QT4CG-050-02: MP to attempt to summarize this discussion and identify specific issues
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-01: NW to attempt to craft a new issue for the remaining items in #129
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-02: NW to attempt to draft a proposal for fn:invisible-xml
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-03: MK to check that in our view schema components don’t indirectly reference the schema root
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-04: DN to make the point that in simple, static cases, the arrow operators may be better.
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-05: DN to correct the typo in item 3 “could be sequence” => “could
+ [ ] QT4CG-051-06: MK to help DN with the markup in fn:chain examples.

** Review of open pull requests and issues
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-pull-requests
:END:

*** Blocked
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: blocked
:END:

The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538][#538]]: 480: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-761][#761]]: 554/754 Simplify the new transitive-closure function
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-737][#737]]: 295: Boost the capability of recursive record types
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-736][#736]]: 730: Clarify (and correct) rules for maps as instances of function types

*** Merge without discussion
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: merge-without-discussion
:END:

The following PRs are editorial, small, or otherwise appeared to be
uncontroversial when the agenda was prepared. The chairs propose that
these can be merged without discussion. If you think discussion is
necessary, please say so.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-787][#787]]: 783(part) - Editorial changes to Serialization spec
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-786][#786]]: 695: Added xref to fn:slice()
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-785][#785]]: 777: updated history
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-784][#784]]: fos xsd
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-782][#782]]: 469: array:of-members, map:of-pairs: Signatures, Examples
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-778][#778]]: XQFO edits 5.4-5.6

*** XSLT focused
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: xslt-focused
:END:

The following PRs appear to be candidates for a future XSLT-focussed
meeting.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470][#470]]: 369: add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412][#412]]: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match

These issues identify the XSLT-focused changes that have been made to
the specifications but which have not been established by the
community group as the status quo.

+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/742][#742]]: xsl:function-library: keep, drop, or refine?
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/169][#169]]: Handling of duplicate keys in xsl:map
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/168][#168]]: XSLT Extension Instructions invoking Named Templates

*** Substantive PRs
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: substantive
:END:

The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-775][#775]]: 517: Reflected Christian Gruen's remarks
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-772][#772]]: Revise the fn:parse-html rules to make them clearer to follow.
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-770][#770]]: 566: Use fn:decode-from-uri in fn:parse-uri
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-753][#753]]: 65: Allow xmlns="xxx" to NOT change the default namespace for NameTests
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-719][#719]]: 413: Spec for CSV-related functions
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to elements-to-maps()

*** Proposed for V4.0
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: proposed-40
:END:

The following issues are labled “proposed for V4.0”.

+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/716][#716]]: Generators in XPath
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/479][#479]]: fn:deep-equal: Input order
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/340][#340]]: fn:format-number: Specifying decimal format
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/260][#260]]: array:index-of
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/238][#238]]: Support Invisible XML
+ Issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/31][#31]]: Extend FLWOR expressions to maps

* Technical Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: technical-agenda
:END:

** Issue #689: fn:stack-trace: keep or drop?
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: iss-689
:END:

See issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/689][#689]].

** Issue #130: New super/union type xs:binary?
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: iss-130
:END:

See issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/130][#130]].

** PR #772: Revise the fn:parse-html rules to make them clearer to follow.
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: pr-772
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-772][#772]]

** PR #770: 566: Use fn:decode-from-uri in fn:parse-uri
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: pr-770
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-770][#770]]

** PR #753: 65: Allow xmlns="xxx" to NOT change the default namespace for NameTests
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: pr-753
:END:

See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-753][#753]]

* Any other business
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: any-other-business
:END:

Plan to discuss ~parse-csv~ again next week?
