<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<title>QT4 CG Meeting 065 Minutes 2024-02-13</title>
<meta name="generator" content="Org Mode" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="content" class="content">
<h1 class="title">QT4 CG Meeting 065 Minutes 2024-02-13</h1>
<div id="table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<ul>
<li><a href="#minutes">Draft Minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/10]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#administrivia">1. Administrivia</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#roll-call">1.1. Roll call <code>[11/13]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#agenda">1.2. Accept the agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#so-far">1.2.1. Status so far…</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#approve-minutes">1.3. Approve minutes of the previous meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#next-meeting">1.4. Next meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#open-actions">1.5. Review of open action items <code>[9/18]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#open-pull-requests">1.6. Review of open pull requests and issues</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#merge-without-discussion">1.6.1. Merge without discussion</a></li>
<li><a href="#close-without-action">1.6.2. Close without action</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#technical-agenda">2. Technical Agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#pr-795">2.1. PR #795: 655 fn:sort-with</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-972">2.2. PR #972: 949 Partial Function Applications: Allow return of function name</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-988">2.3. PR #988: 960 Pinned and labeled values</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-985">2.4. PR #985: 720 Add lookup arrow expressions (method invocations)</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-978">2.5. PR #978: 948 Reflected the comments of the CG on the specification of scan-left and scan-right</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#any-other-business">3. Any other business</a></li>
<li><a href="#adjourned">4. Adjourned</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<p>
<a href="../">Meeting index</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org">QT4CG.org</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard">Dashboard</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues">GH Issues</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls">GH Pull Requests</a>
</p>

<div id="outline-container-minutes" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="minutes">Draft Minutes</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-minutes">
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-new-actions" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/10]</code></h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-new-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-056-04: MK to write a proposal for adding a select attribute to xsl:text</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-058-02: MK to consider providing more advice about the pitfalls of mixing decimal and double when sorting</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-01: MK to revise #956 especially with respect to the options parameter</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-02: JK to consider whether the roman numeral example is appropriate for the spec.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-04: NW to try to add test review to the editorial meeting.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-05: MK to revise PR #953 to take account of CG’s comments</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-06: MK to consider refactoring the declare item type syntax to something like declare record</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-064-08: NW to open an issue to try to resolve $search to $target consistently.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-065-01: CG to amend PR #795 to address MK’s comment re: implementation defined behavior</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-administrivia" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="administrivia"><span class="section-number-2">1.</span> Administrivia</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-administrivia">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-roll-call" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="roll-call"><span class="section-number-3">1.1.</span> Roll call <code>[11/13]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-roll-call">
<p>
Regrets: MSM.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Reece Dunn (RD)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Sasha Firsov (SF) [:06-]</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Christian Grün (CG)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Joel Kalvesmaki (JK) [:05-]</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Michael Kay (MK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Juri Leino (JLO)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> John Lumley (JLY)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Dimitre Novatchev (DN)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Wendell Piez (WP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Ed Porter (EP)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Adam Retter (AR) [:10-]</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW). <i>Scribe</i>. <i>Chair</i>.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-agenda" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="agenda"><span class="section-number-3">1.2.</span> Accept the agenda</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-agenda">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../agenda/2024/02-13.html">the agenda</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-so-far" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="so-far"><span class="section-number-4">1.2.1.</span> Status so far…</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-so-far">

<div id="org952bea8" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-open-2024-02-13.png" alt="issues-open-2024-02-13.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 1: </span>“Burn down” chart on open issues</p>
</div>


<div id="org23f9c6b" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-spec-2024-02-13.png" alt="issues-by-spec-2024-02-13.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 2: </span>Open issues by specification</p>
</div>


<div id="org2594201" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-type-2024-02-13.png" alt="issues-by-type-2024-02-13.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 3: </span>Open issues by type</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-approve-minutes" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="approve-minutes"><span class="section-number-3">1.3.</span> Approve minutes of the previous meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-approve-minutes">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../minutes/2024/02-06.html">the minutes of the previous meeting</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-next-meeting" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="next-meeting"><span class="section-number-3">1.4.</span> Next meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-next-meeting">
<p>
The next meeting <a href="../../agenda/2024/02-20.html">is scheduled for Tuesday, 20 February 2024</a>.
</p>

<p>
Any regrets for the next meeting?
</p>

<p>
Regrets: JLO.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-actions" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-actions"><span class="section-number-3">1.5.</span> Review of open action items <code>[9/18]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-056-04: MK to write a proposal for adding a select attribute to xsl:text</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-058-02: MK to consider providing more advice about the pitfalls of mixing decimal and double when sorting</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-062-03: JK to revise the fn:hash function along the lines discussed at the meeting</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-01: MK to revise #956 especially with respect to the options parameter</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-02: JK to consider whether the roman numeral example is appropriate for the spec.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-063-03: DN to address the editorial remarks from meeting 063 in a new PR.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-04: NW to try to add test review to the editorial meeting.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-05: MK to revise PR #953 to take account of CG’s comments</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-06: MK to consider refactoring the declare item type syntax to something like declare record</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-01: MK to remove “#…” and “#x…” arguments from <code>fn:char</code></li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-02: CG to update the fallback function to use the new <code>char</code> argument.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-03: CG to add examples to show how JSON parsing changes are useful.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-04: CG to change the return type of <code>fallback</code> to <code>xs:untypedAtomic?</code></li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-05: CG to amend the names in the keys-where example to be more inclusive</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-06: Add a <code>keys-where</code> example that uses the value in a more interesting way.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-064-07: CG to add an <code>array:index-of</code> example that uses a collation</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-064-08: NW to open an issue to try to resolve $search to $target consistently.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-pull-requests" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-pull-requests"><span class="section-number-3">1.6.</span> Review of open pull requests and issues</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-pull-requests">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-merge-without-discussion" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="merge-without-discussion"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.1.</span> Merge without discussion</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-merge-without-discussion">
<p>
The following PRs are editorial, small, or otherwise appeared to be
uncontroversial when the agenda was prepared. The chairs propose that
these can be merged without discussion. If you think discussion is
necessary, please say so.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1010">#1010</a>: 1009 Examples, Return type of parse-json:fallback</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proosal: Accept without discussion.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-close-without-action" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="close-without-action"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.2.</span> Close without action</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-close-without-action">
<p>
It has been proposed that the following issues be closed without action.
If you think discussion is necessary, please say so.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/994">#994</a>: Invoking maps &amp; arrays: allow sequences?</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/989">#989</a>: character sequence constructor 'a' to 'z'</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/79">#79</a>: fn:deep-normalize-space($e as node())</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/55">#55</a>: Provide an XML version of the stack trace</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/42">#42</a>: Relax type incompatibility in order by clause (impl. dep. instead of XPST0004)</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: Close without action.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-technical-agenda" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="technical-agenda"><span class="section-number-2">2.</span> Technical Agenda</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-technical-agenda">
<p>
As agreed, we continue with the items left over from last week.
</p>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-795" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-795"><span class="section-number-3">2.1.</span> PR #795: 655 fn:sort-with</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-795">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-795">#795</a>
</p>

<p>
T.B.D. Was there progress over the week or is more discussion required?
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: I’ve incorporated JLY’s proposal to allow multiple comparitors.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Multiple functions are in alignment with sort function.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: Accept this PR.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: There’s a comment of mine that hasn’t been applied. We give an
implementation as normative prose, but say in the notes that we can provide
another one. But there are aspects of the implementation are implementation
defined.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… I think the best thing to do would be to say what’s implementation defined
and then say that equivalence is only with respect to things that aren’t
implementation defined.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>CG: What are the implementation defined cases?</li>
<li>MK: One example: if a comparitor returns a failure then different
implementations might raise different errors.</li>
<li>RD: Excluding error cases?</li>
<li>MK: Excluding error cases and provided that the comparitor is transitive.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION: QT4CG-065-01: CG to amend PR #795 to address MK’s comment re: implementation defined behavior
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>DN: If I understand MK, then you can’t provide a single oracle function. One
example of a difference is a sequence that contains equal items that might
come back in different orders.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… If there’s a strict oracle function, then maybe it could be made better</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of the details of what happens when the comparitors return equal.
The goal is stable sort.
</p>

<p>
We’ll consider this for merging without discussion next week after CG’s ammendments.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-972" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-972"><span class="section-number-3">2.2.</span> PR #972: 949 Partial Function Applications: Allow return of function name</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-972">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-972">#972</a>
</p>

<p>
CG introduces the PR.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: First, editorially, I’ve aligned the names of the abbreviations.</li>
<li>CG: The major change is to allow returning the name. This handles cases where
there multiple implementations that are the same because all of the parametes are <code>?</code>.</li>
<li>MK: Is there a data model change?</li>
<li>CG: Just editorial changes.</li>
<li>DN: I think it would be better to forbid partial application where are
placeholders are quesiton marks. It’s meaningless and leads to “problems”
where CG wants to get the actual function. We can forbid this.</li>
<li>CG: Many users use question marks instead of hashes. And that change would be
backwards incompatible.</li>
<li>RD: I’d be strongly opposed to making that change. It’s backwards incompatible
and especially when there’s only one parameter, using <code>#1</code> or a single <code>?</code> is
quite common.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: Accept this PR.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-988" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-988"><span class="section-number-3">2.3.</span> PR #988: 960 Pinned and labeled values</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-988">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-988">#988</a>
</p>

<p>
MK introduces the PR.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: The aim here is to support essentially zipped navigation of JSON “trees”.
This allows you to navigate down a tree and then go back up again.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… This isn’t a complete proposal, it’s setting the groundwork for consensus.</li>
<li>… In the Data Model, we add the concept of labeled items.</li>
<li>… One question is if it should be labeled items or labeled values.</li>
<li>… We might restrict a labled item so that can’t contain a labeled item.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
MK reviews the rules in 2.10 Labeled Items in the Data Model specification.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Operations like deep lookup are defined to return labeled items.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… We define <code>fn:pin</code> that you can apply to a map or an array to mark it as
pinned. That says any navigation that I do will return labeled values.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: The change to the language is in section 4.15.4 in lookups which now
describe how pinned maps and arrays work.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… The assumption is that everything is defined in terms of map:get so all of
the other navigation operators will have the same effect.</li>
<li>… You can access the label properties to navigate around the tree you searched.</li>
<li>… There are two ways to present this and I’m a little torn. One is to say
that <code>map:get</code> attaches the label, and the other is that pinning the label
attaches them to the subtree. So you can present the formal model in terms
of having all of the labels attached.</li>
<li>… We can build things like deep update on top  o fthis.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>RD: Can we use annotations for this? We’ve got annotations and functions,
variables and items. It seems logical to extend that concept to other items in
general. And then we’d have a unified mechanism for associating this kind of
metadata on an item.</li>
<li>MK: That’s certainly feasible.</li>
<li>DN: I think this is very welcome change. I have some questions. If we have a
deep lookup, will it pin all the items or only the final result? Second, if
some item belongs to two different maps, and if we do this with two different
lookups, will the item be pinned twice, or duplicated, or what? And I didn’t
understand the first bullet in the DM spec.</li>
<li>MK: The assumption of on deep lookup is that the semantics are defined in
terms of shallow lookup, so you’d label evertyhing all the way down. Doing the
labeling eagerly is one way fo doing that.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… In our model, there’s no way to ask if a map is shared between two
subtrees; we don’t have identity. But pinning in principle copies the
values; anything else is an implementation issue.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of what the semantics of update are likely to be.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>DN: This seems confusing. If we have several copies of the same item and we
perform different updates, I don’t know how many copies there will be.</li>
<li>MK: It’s less complicated than it appears because these items don’t have
identity.</li>
<li>JLY: This is all invisible unless you go through the label accessors, is that the case?</li>
<li>MK: Yes.</li>
<li>JLO: We can assume that if <code>fn:pin</code> isn’t implemented, then none of this is
implemented.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Another thing I noticed is that the transitive closure function is defined on nodes.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: Right. I shouldn’t have used it in the example; I raised a separate issue
about that.</li>
<li>JK: Has there been discussion of what kinds of entries can be in the label?</li>
<li>MK: At the data model label, it can contain any key/value pairs. But the map
lookup is returning values with specific properties in the label.</li>
<li>JLY: The maps that come back, can they be pinned?</li>
<li>MK: Good question, I don’t know.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-985" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-985"><span class="section-number-3">2.4.</span> PR #985: 720 Add lookup arrow expressions (method invocations)</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-985">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-985">#985</a>
</p>

<p>
MK introduces the PR.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: We’re looking at 4.21.3, Lookup Arrow Expressions, in the XPath specification.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… At one level, this is a big deal, but at another, it all fits on one page.</li>
<li>… What it doesn’t do is introduce classes or prototypes or a constructor
syntax. One could consider building some of that, but at the moment, it just
defines a simple way for a function to carry its context at the moment.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>JK: You said that $this was closed because it wasn’t needed.</li>
<li>MK: No, the name isn’t magic here.</li>
<li>DN: This is a very positive thing; it solves many problems. It eliminates the
need to have a special variable. My only observation is that the new operator
<code>=?&gt;</code> is easy to mistype. I think something more distinctive like <code>|&gt;</code> would
be an easier choice visibly.</li>
<li>MK: I chose this because, like <code>=!&gt;</code>, it’s a combination of things. I hoped
this might make it memorable. But we can discuss the best symbol.</li>
<li>RD: Technically, we do have constructor functions because record item times
have a name.</li>
<li>MK: I don’t think those are quite in the baseline yet, but…</li>
<li>RD: Okay. But once we have those, we can bind the functions statically.</li>
<li>JLY: Does this have any implications on the names of fields in the map?
Suppose I called it not <code>area</code> but <code>count</code>. I’d then have something that looks
like <code>count</code> but isn’t.</li>
<li>DN: That’s because it looks like the fat arrow, that’s why I’d like a
different symbol.</li>
<li>JLO: In current XQuery, I don’t think this new form of writing it is helping.</li>
<li>MK: I think when you get to more complex expressions, equivalent to a chain of
method references in an object-oriented language, the fact that you don’t have
to repeat the name starts to have combinatorial improvements.</li>
<li>DN: I wanted to say what MK said; imagine a case where you have to pass the
object as the first parameter to every method. Except in very simple cases, it
is a lot easier.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Is this ready to merge? Consensus seems to be that it is.
</p>

<p>
Proposal: Accept this PR.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-978" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-978"><span class="section-number-3">2.5.</span> PR #978: 948 Reflected the comments of the CG on the specification of scan-left and scan-right</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-978">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-978">#978</a>
</p>

<p>
DN introduces the PR. The changes are editorial.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>JK: This is the step in the right direction, but there are other things to do.</li>
<li>NW: Ok, but this is a nice, clean PR. Let’s merge this and take up the other
issues separately.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: Accept this PR.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-any-other-business" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="any-other-business"><span class="section-number-2">3.</span> Any other business</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-any-other-business">
<p>
None heard.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-adjourned" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="adjourned"><span class="section-number-2">4.</span> Adjourned</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-adjourned">
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>