<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<title>QT4 CG Meeting 069 Minutes 2024-03-12</title>
<meta name="generator" content="Org Mode" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="content" class="content">
<h1 class="title">QT4 CG Meeting 069 Minutes 2024-03-12</h1>
<div id="table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<ul>
<li><a href="#minutes">Minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/6]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#administrivia">1. Administrivia</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#roll-call">1.1. Roll call <code>[11/13]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#agenda">1.2. Accept the agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#so-far">1.2.1. Status so far…</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#approve-minutes">1.3. Approve minutes of the previous meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#next-meeting">1.4. Next meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#open-actions">1.5. Review of open action items <code>[8/12]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#open-pull-requests">1.6. Review of open pull requests and issues</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#blocked">1.6.1. Blocked</a></li>
<li><a href="#merge-without-discussion">1.6.2. Merge without discussion</a></li>
<li><a href="#close-without-action">1.6.3. Close without action</a></li>
<li><a href="#substantive">1.6.4. Substantive PRs</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#technical-agenda">2. Technical Agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#demo">2.1. Brief demo</a></li>
<li><a href="#test-suite">2.2. Diversion between the spec and test suite</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-1062">2.3. PR #1062/#1027: fn:ranks</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-1066">2.4. PR #1066: 1052 Simplify the results of parse-csv</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-1059">2.5. PR #1059: 1019 XQFO: Unknown option parameters</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#any-other-business">3. Any other business</a></li>
<li><a href="#adjourned">4. Adjourned</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<p>
<a href="../">Meeting index</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org">QT4CG.org</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard">Dashboard</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues">GH Issues</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls">GH Pull Requests</a>
</p>

<div id="outline-container-minutes" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="minutes">Minutes</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-minutes">
<p>
Approved <a href="../2024/03-19.html">at meeting 070</a> on 19 March 2024.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-new-actions" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/6]</code></h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-new-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-04: NW to try to add test review to the editorial meeting.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-06: MK to consider refactoring the declare item type syntax to something like declare record</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-064-08: NW to open an issue to try to resolve $search to $target consistently.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-069-01: MK to list the remaining issues that need discussion.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-069-02: NW to coordinate with MK to use the introspection features on the test suite.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-administrivia" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="administrivia"><span class="section-number-2">1.</span> Administrivia</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-administrivia">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-roll-call" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="roll-call"><span class="section-number-3">1.1.</span> Roll call <code>[11/13]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-roll-call">
<p>
Regrets SF.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Reece Dunn (RD)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Sasha Firsov (SF) [-:30]</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Christian Grün (CG)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Joel Kalvesmaki (JK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Michael Kay (MK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Juri Leino (JLO)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> John Lumley (JLY)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Dimitre Novatchev (DN)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Wendell Piez (WP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Ed Porter (EP)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Adam Retter (AR)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW). <i>Scribe</i>. <i>Chair</i>.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-agenda" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="agenda"><span class="section-number-3">1.2.</span> Accept the agenda</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-agenda">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../agenda/2024/03-12.html">the agenda</a>.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: I’d like to talk about divergence between the spec and the test suite.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Accepted, with that ammendment.
</p>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-so-far" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="so-far"><span class="section-number-4">1.2.1.</span> Status so far…</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-so-far">

<div id="org93c0c2c" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-open-2024-03-12.png" alt="issues-open-2024-03-12.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 1: </span>“Burn down” chart on open issues</p>
</div>


<div id="org7a5a9ad" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-spec-2024-03-12.png" alt="issues-by-spec-2024-03-12.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 2: </span>Open issues by specification</p>
</div>


<div id="orgf6bc657" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-type-2024-03-12.png" alt="issues-by-type-2024-03-12.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 3: </span>Open issues by type</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-approve-minutes" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="approve-minutes"><span class="section-number-3">1.3.</span> Approve minutes of the previous meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-approve-minutes">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../minutes/2024/03-05.html">the minutes of the previous meeting</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-next-meeting" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="next-meeting"><span class="section-number-3">1.4.</span> Next meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-next-meeting">
<p>
The next meeting <a href="../../agenda/2024/03-19.html">is scheduled for Tuesday, 19 March 2024</a>.
</p>

<p>
Any regrets for the next meeting?
</p>

<p>
None heard.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-actions" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-actions"><span class="section-number-3">1.5.</span> Review of open action items <code>[8/12]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-04: NW to try to add test review to the editorial meeting.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-063-06: MK to consider refactoring the declare item type syntax to something like declare record</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-064-08: NW to open an issue to try to resolve $search to $target consistently.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-pull-requests" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-pull-requests"><span class="section-number-3">1.6.</span> Review of open pull requests and issues</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-pull-requests">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-blocked" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="blocked"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.1.</span> Blocked</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-blocked">
<p>
The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-956">#956</a>: 850-partial Editorial improvements to parse-html()</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529">#529</a>: 528 fn:elements-to-maps</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-merge-without-discussion" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="merge-without-discussion"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.2.</span> Merge without discussion</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-merge-without-discussion">
<p>
The following PRs are editorial, small, or otherwise appeared to be
uncontroversial when the agenda was prepared. The chairs propose that
these can be merged without discussion. If you think discussion is
necessary, please say so.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1058">#1058</a>: 1037 fn:json-to-xml: 'number-parser' option</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: accept without discussion.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-close-without-action" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="close-without-action"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.3.</span> Close without action</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-close-without-action">
<p>
It has been proposed that the following issues be closed without action.
If you think discussion is necessary, please say so.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/961">#961</a>: Simulating Objects: Performance</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/960">#960</a>: Should ??KS flatten the results</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/829">#829</a>: fn:boolean: EBV support for more item types</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/825">#825</a>: array:members-at</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/757">#757</a>: Function families</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/314">#314</a>: Basic Operations on Maps and Arrays</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/295">#295</a>: Extend support for self-reference in record types</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/274">#274</a>: What would it take/would it be possible to build a module repository for QT?</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/262">#262</a>: Navigation in deep-structured arrays</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/220">#220</a>: Encapsulation</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: close without further action.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: I proposed closing some of these because the discussion hadn’t lead to any
clear course of action. Some have been overtaken by events. Some have been
implemented.</li>
<li>NW: I think it makes sense to keep the list tidy; we can open them again.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>

<p>
Some discussion of the issue of flattening sequences. DN is concerned that
flattening causes data loss and we should do something about that. The problem
will continue to exist even if we close the issue!
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-substantive" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="substantive"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.4.</span> Substantive PRs</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-substantive">
<p>
The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1068">#1068</a>: 73 fn:graphemes</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1066">#1066</a>: 1052 Simplify the results of parse-csv</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1062">#1062</a>: 150bis - revised proposal for fn:ranks</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1059">#1059</a>: 1019 XQFO: Unknown option parameters</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1027">#1027</a>: 150 fn:ranks</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-832">#832</a>: 77 Add map:deep-update and array:deep-update</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-technical-agenda" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="technical-agenda"><span class="section-number-2">2.</span> Technical Agenda</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-technical-agenda">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-demo" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="demo"><span class="section-number-3">2.1.</span> Brief demo</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-demo">
<p>
SF had to give regrets, we’ll postpone this to next week.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-test-suite" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="test-suite"><span class="section-number-3">2.2.</span> Diversion between the spec and test suite</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-test-suite">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: We have some features that have been added to the spec but not agreed.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-069-01: MK to list the remaining issues that need discussion.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: In the beginning, the test suite was pretty easy to navigate. But now we
have lots of tests for things that aren’t in the specification. I have a
growing list of things that I need to add to the test suite.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Before adding more features, it would be nice to tidy up the current test suite.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: There’s a mechanism, the “covers 4.0 attribute” that we haven’t been using
as diligently as we might.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… In theory the test suite has a list of features and tests can be tagged
against those features.</li>
<li>… Ideally, those tags should be PR numbers and we should change the tagging
of tests to identify the PR number that they’re associated with.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
We can use PR tags to identify missing tests, accepted tests, etc.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Incorrect tests we should manage with issues.</li>

<li>JLY: The one I encountered this morning is that there are tests for things
about map keys that aren’t in the spec.</li>

<li>NW: How do we make progress?</li>

<li>MK: There are introspective tests that test the test suite against the
changes. We can try modifying the list of changes to match the PR numbers.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-069-02: NW to coordinate with MK to use the introspection features on the test suite.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: For features that will probably be added, we should use PRs.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-1062" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-1062"><span class="section-number-3">2.3.</span> PR #1062/#1027: fn:ranks</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-1062">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1062">#1062</a>: 150bis - revised proposal for fn:ranks and PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1027">#1027</a>: 150 fn:ranks
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: My PR was an attempt to implement the things that I understood or that
seemed uncontroversial.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… I was saying “this is what I think the function should do.”</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of how to proceed. DN proposes we review MK’s draft.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK reviews his draft (PR #1062).
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… I understood this to be essentially a group sort.</li>
<li>… It’s a sort followed by a partitioning, or vice-versa</li>
<li>… The signature takes identical parameters to <code>fn:sort</code> but instead of
delivering a list of items, it returns a list of arrays of items.</li>
<li>… It doesn’t allow you to do the partitioning independently from what the
sort is doing, as the other proposal does.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>RD: With DN’s proposal, what additional flexibility would we get?</li>
</ul>

<p>
DN comments on MK’s proposal.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>DN: I think <code>op:same-sort-keys()</code> is a nice addition, but I don’t think it’s
defined anywhere.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… The order of arguments is problematic because it requires an empty <code>()</code>
collation to be provided.</li>
<li>… In the fifth example, we use the argument name <code>keys</code> but the argument is
a single function. That’s very confusing. What we need is a ranking
function. The name <code>key</code> is unsatisfying.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>DN: I’m also concerned about the fact that in MK’s proposal the function
argument isn’t a single function, it’s a sequence of functions!</li>
</ul>

<p>
DN switches to present his proposal, PR #1027.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>DN: My function has arguments that are easier to use.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… This function was borrowed from SQL and they don’t care about the fact
that items can occur more than once because they deal with sets. But we
don’t.</li>
<li>… This is why the <code>$distinct-ranks</code> parameter is needed and defaults to <code>true()</code>.</li>
<li>… The collation only has to be used when it’s required.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>DN highlights the difference that <code>$distinct-ranks</code> makes.</li>
<li>DN: MK wants to use the same function arguments as <code>fn:sort</code> but I think
that’s unnecessary.</li>
<li>NW: How does the sequence of functions come into play?</li>
</ul>

<p>
DN makes a passionate argument for simplicity on behalf of the users.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>RD: I think the sequence of functions is to support sorting by author then
title, this is the reason <code>fn:sort</code> has multiple functions.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… In <code>fn:ranks</code> if you wanted to sort by string-length and whether the
length is odd or even, you’d need two functions. That’s why you have
multiple functions.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of whether you can write a single function to do that.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>RD: The function you pass isn’t just a comparison function, it’s used to
select the keys.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Further discussion of whether or not it’s even possible to write a single
function for this purpose.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: Can you give an example, please, it’s not clear.</li>

<li>JLO: Comparing both proposals, I see that one thing that bugged me was having
to provide the empty sequence as the second argument to support.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… If it’s so problematic, creating a wrapper function isn’t too problematic.</li>
<li>… I do like functions in our specification to behave the same way.</li>
<li>… If <code>fn:sort</code> and <code>fn:ranks</code> both need the collation, I would like it to be
in the same place.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>JLO: In DN’s proposal, why are there two collations?</li>

<li>DN: The <code>$collation-input</code> is needed if the inputs are strings and
<code>$distinct-ranks</code> is true. The collation is needed to make the input strings
distinct.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of the difference between <code>fn:sort</code> and <code>fn:sort-with</code>.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>JLO: Can we get rid of all the collations that way?</li>
<li>CG: Did you consider comparitor functions?</li>
<li>DN: I think we need them to make the strings unique.</li>
<li>CG: But not if you use comparitor functions.</li>
<li>RD: Isn’t one of the disadvantage of a comparitor function is that you can’t
hash the returned keys so you don’t have to compute them every time. That
makes it easier to build the ranked data structure.</li>
<li>CG: You can cache those in the comparitor case; the optimizations are
different but it can be done.</li>
</ul>

<p>
DN agrees to demonstrate a single function that can take the place of several.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-1066" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-1066"><span class="section-number-3">2.4.</span> PR #1066: 1052 Simplify the results of parse-csv</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-1066">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1066">#1066</a>
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: I don’t think we can review the proposal this week.</li>

<li>NW: I’ll make sure this is on the top of the agenda next week.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-1059" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-1059"><span class="section-number-3">2.5.</span> PR #1059: 1019 XQFO: Unknown option parameters</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-1059">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-1059">#1059</a>
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG reviews his PR.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… The fact that unknown options are ignored means that typos aren’t detected.</li>
<li>… One question is what we do about vendor extension options.</li>
<li>… I think it would be best to reject any option that isn’t known to the implementation.</li>
<li>… Do we say you MUST raise an error or SHOULD raise an error.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: I think there are two issues: backwards compatibility. We’ll find
stylesheets that use misspelled names that didn’t previously given an error.
And vendor extensions: we may find users have deliberately used option names
that they know are known to only one processor.</li>
<li>JLY: This is a case where it may be permitted to raise an error, but it should
be user-configurable. There may be legitimate reasons to want to use options that aren’t recognized.</li>
<li>MSM: What JL said.</li>
<li>DN: I think CG is right, it is always better to be notified about errors. What
JL said also applies. But errors should be raised by default.</li>
<li>WP: I can see the value; apart from the question of “lint” checking, it would
be nice if a common option could be provided, that could be useful.</li>
<li>JLO: If I WP right, it would be a “can be raised” but you’d define the error.</li>
<li>WP: There are operational advantages, but out on the edges, there may be cases where you want the current behavior.</li>
<li>RD: One of the challenges is that if you want to take advantage of vendor extensions, there’s currently
no mechanism to detect whether the version you’re on supports a specific property.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… I wonder if we could take advantage of records and have a “does this
record support this property” check. Then you could check on the options for
the function. That would provide a mechanism for validating incorrect parameters.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>WP: So in the code, you could explicitly validate?</li>
<li>RD: Yes. You could say “if format in record type, then create a record with a
format key.” You could build the map up like that. That would let thing be
more extensible. You wouldn’t have to say “is there a vendor function and is
the vendor version greater than some value”, etc.</li>
</ul>

<p>
No obvious consensus has formed, we’ll come back to this next week.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-any-other-business" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="any-other-business"><span class="section-number-2">3.</span> Any other business</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-any-other-business">
<p>
None heard.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-adjourned" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="adjourned"><span class="section-number-2">4.</span> Adjourned</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-adjourned">
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
