:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       7DE0956C-D544-4347-8C4C-B3EDC6D0B897
:END:
#+title: QT4 CG Meeting 043 Minutes 2023-07-25
#+author: Norm Tovey-Walsh
#+filetags: :qt4cg:
#+options: html-style:nil h:6
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
#+html_head: <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
#+html_head: <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
#+options: author:nil email:nil creator:nil timestamp:nil
#+startup: showall


[[../][Agenda index]] / [[https://qt4cg.org][QT4CG.org]] / [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard][Dashboard]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues][GH Issues]] / [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls][GH Pull Requests]]

* Minutes
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: minutes
:END:

Approved [[./09-05.html][at meeting 044]] on 5 September 2023.

* Summary of new and continuing actions [0/5]
:PROPERTIES:
:unnumbered: t
:CUSTOM_ID: new-actions
:END:

+ [ ] QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group
+ [ ] QT4CG-016-08: RD to clarify how namespace comparisons are performed.
+ [ ] QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
  + This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
    subsequent discussion.
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
  See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449][#449]]
+ [ ] QT4CG-039-01: NW to schedule discussion of issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52][#52]], /Allow record(*) based RecordTests/
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-01: NW to use sequences instead of arrays in ~parse-uri~ output.
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-02: NW to make the query into a simple map with repeated values.
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-03: NW to consider revisions to query parses.
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-01: CG to consider a different name for ~fn:void~
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-02: MSM to review PR #635
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-03: NW to work on issue #608
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-04: NW to try to resolve the problem of diffs that mix PR texts.
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-05: NW to review what’s wrong with PR #633
+ [ ] QT4CG-043-06: NW to consider if there’s any low-hanging-fruit in replacing external parsed entities with XInclude

* Administrivia
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: administrivia
:END:

** Roll call [8/10]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: roll-call
:END:

+ [X] Reece Dunn (RD)
+ [ ] Sasha Firsov (SF)
+ [X] Christian Grün (CG)
+ [X] Joel Kalvesmaki (JK)
+ [X] Michael Kay (MK)
+ [X] John Lumley (JL)
+ [X] Dimitre Novatchev (DN)
+ [ ] Ed Porter (EP)
+ [X] C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM) [x:15-]
+ [X] Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW). /Scribe/. /Chair/.

** Accept the agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: agenda
:END:

Proposal: Accept [[../../agenda/2023/07-25.html][the agenda]].

Accepted.

*** Status so far…
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: so-far
:END:

#+CAPTION: “Burn down” chart on open issues
#+NAME:   fig:open-issues
[[./issues-open-2023-07-25.png]]

#+CAPTION: Open issues by specification
#+NAME:   fig:open-issues-by-spec
[[./issues-by-spec-2023-07-25.png]]

#+CAPTION: Open issues by type
#+NAME:   fig:open-issues-by-type
[[./issues-by-type-2023-07-25.png]]

** Approve minutes of the previous meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: approve-minutes
:END:

Proposal: Accept [[../../minutes/2023/07-18.html][the minutes of the previous meeting]].

Accepted.

** Next meeting
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: next-meeting
:END:

The next meeting [[../../agenda/2023/08-29.html][is scheduled for Tuesday, 29 August 2023]].

No regrets heard.

The CG will take a vacation for four weeks in August. We
will not meet on 1, 8, 15, or 22 August.

** Review of open action items [1/6]
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: open-actions
:END:

+ [ ] QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group
+ [ ] QT4CG-016-08: RD to clarify how namespace comparisons are performed.
+ [ ] QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
  + This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
    subsequent discussion.
+ [ ] QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
  See PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449][#449]]
+ [ ] QT4CG-039-01: NW to schedule discussion of issue [[https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52][#52]], /Allow record(*) based RecordTests/
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-01: NW to use sequences instead of arrays in ~parse-uri~ output.
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-02: NW to make the query into a simple map with repeated values.
+ [ ] QT4CG-042-03: NW to consider revisions to query parses.

* Technical Agenda
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: technical-agenda
:END:

** Review of open PRs
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-9C3A29A5-7411-4C95-A8CB-0A0FF80A1402
:END:

+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-368][#368]]: 129: Context item generalized to context value
  + Revise
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412][#412]]: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match
  + XSLT
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470][#470]]: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT
  + Revise
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529][#529]]: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()
  + MK: There are open comments to reduce its scope.
  + Leave open
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-533][#533]]: 413: Spec for CSV parsing with fn:parse-csv()
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538][#538]]: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI
  + Revise
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-546][#546]]: 414: Attempt to implement expanding the allowed character repertoire
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-575][#575]]: 359: fn:void: Absorb result of evaluated argument
  + DN: The name isn’t very informative
  + ACTION QT4CG-043-01: CG to consider a different name for fn:void
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-589][#589]]: 561: abbreviation fn=function, drop lambda syntax
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-599][#599]]: 90: Simplified stylesheets with no xsl:version
  + XSLT
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-603][#603]]: 602 Implausible Expressions
  + JL: Is it provable that something is going to give an error?
  + MK: No, they mostly return an empty sequence which can be hard to
    diagnose. It’s a case where we’re pretty sure you’ve done
    something that only succeeds by accident.
  + DN: Is there a full list of possible expressions?
  + MK: No, it’s entirely defined by the spec. There isn’t a
    centralized list, there’s a distributed one.
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-606][#606]]: Allow element(A|B) and attribute(A|B)
  + MK: Slight refactoring of existing syntax.
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-609][#609]]: 508: New Map & Array Functions: Inconsistencies
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-619][#619]]: XDM ch. 6 minor edits
  + Revise
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-623][#623]]: Issue93 sort descending
  + Leave open
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-627][#627]]: Adjusted function category descriptions
  + Revise
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-629][#629]]: 574: fn:log: Trace and discard results
  + Merge
+ PR [[https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-630][#630]]: XPath spec ch. 3 minor edits
  + Merge
+ PR #631: 600: fn:decode-from-uri
  + Leave open
  + MK: Do we know how we’d use this?
+ PR #632: SENR0001: Error description updated
  + Merge
+ PR #633: Edits ch. 4.1 through 4.15
  + Revise
+ PR #634: 471: Quotes (missing cases)
  + Merge
+ PR #635: 451: Schema compatibility
  + Leave open
  + MK: I’d particularly like MSM to review it.
    + ACTION QT4CG-043-02: MSM to review PR #635

** Review of open issues
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-2142FF29-2342-495A-B03E-F87934DBF449
:END:

ACTION QT4CG-043-03: NW to work on issue #608

+ MK: The “sort descending” PR has markup changes that could be incorporated.

ACTION QT4CG-043-04: NW to try to resolve the problem of diffs that mix PR texts.

ACTION QT4CG-043-05: NW to review what’s wrong with PR #633

ACTION QT4CG-043-06: NW to consider if there’s any low-hanging-fruit in replacing external parsed entities with XInclude

+ MSM: If you have external entitites with multiple roots, you should
  just split them into three separate entities.

*** Issue #601
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: h-3002A09B-6249-46CA-AF48-84263FE3FEC1
:END:

+ CG: What about #601?

+ MK: I’m neutral.

+ MSM: How confident are we that the argument from consistency points
  in only one direction? Are we sure ~fn:every~ is better?

Some discussion. General consensus that changing it *now* is better
than changing it later. CG to submit a PR.

* Any other business?
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: any-other-business
:END:

+ JL: Our next meeting is the last meeting before year two of the CG
  begins, should we do some sort of review?

+ NW: That’s a good idea!

* Adjourned
:PROPERTIES:
:CUSTOM_ID: adjourned
:END:
