<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<title>QT4 CG Meeting 044 Minutes 2023-09-05</title>
<meta name="generator" content="Org Mode" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="content" class="content">
<h1 class="title">QT4 CG Meeting 044 Minutes 2023-09-05</h1>
<div id="table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<ul>
<li><a href="#minutes">Minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/5]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#administrivia">1. Administrivia</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#roll-call">1.1. Roll call <code>[10/11]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#agenda">1.2. Accept the agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#so-far">1.2.1. Status so far…</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#approve-minutes">1.3. Approve minutes of the previous meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#next-meeting">1.4. Next meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#open-actions">1.5. Review of open action items <code>[1/8]</code></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#technical-agenda">2. Technical Agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#open-prs">2.1. Review of open PRs</a></li>
<li><a href="#open-issues">2.2. Review of open issues</a></li>
<li><a href="#broader-planning">2.3. Broader planning</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#any-other-business">3. Any other business?</a></li>
<li><a href="#adjourned">4. Adjourned</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<p>
<a href="../">Agenda index</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org">QT4CG.org</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard">Dashboard</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues">GH Issues</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls">GH Pull Requests</a>
</p>

<div id="outline-container-minutes" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="minutes">Minutes</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-minutes">
<p>
Approved <a href="./09-12.html">at meeting 045</a> on 12 September 2023.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-new-actions" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/5]</code></h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-new-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
subsequent discussion.</li>
</ul></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449">#449</a></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-039-01: NW to schedule discussion of issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52">#52</a>, <i>Allow record(*) based RecordTests</i></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-01: NW to use sequences instead of arrays in <code>parse-uri</code> output.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-02: NW to make the query into a simple map with repeated values.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-03: NW to consider revisions to query parses.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-administrivia" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="administrivia"><span class="section-number-2">1.</span> Administrivia</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-administrivia">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-roll-call" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="roll-call"><span class="section-number-3">1.1.</span> Roll call <code>[10/11]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-roll-call">
<p>
Regrets: SF for 5 and 12 September.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Reece Dunn (RD)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Sasha Firsov (SF)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Christian Grün (CG)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Joel Kalvesmaki (JK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Michael Kay (MK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> John Lumley (JL)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Dimitre Novatchev (DN)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Ed Porter (EP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM) [x:15-]</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW). <i>Scribe</i>. <i>Chair</i>.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> benibela</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-agenda" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="agenda"><span class="section-number-3">1.2.</span> Accept the agenda</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-agenda">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../agenda/2023/09-05.html">the agenda</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-so-far" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="so-far"><span class="section-number-4">1.2.1.</span> Status so far…</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-so-far">

<div id="org736e55d" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-open-2023-09-05.png" alt="issues-open-2023-09-05.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 1: </span>“Burn down” chart on open issues</p>
</div>


<div id="org9cae0ff" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-spec-2023-09-05.png" alt="issues-by-spec-2023-09-05.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 2: </span>Open issues by specification</p>
</div>


<div id="org7572e55" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-type-2023-09-05.png" alt="issues-by-type-2023-09-05.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 3: </span>Open issues by type</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-approve-minutes" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="approve-minutes"><span class="section-number-3">1.3.</span> Approve minutes of the previous meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-approve-minutes">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../minutes/2023/07-25.html">the minutes of the previous meeting</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-next-meeting" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="next-meeting"><span class="section-number-3">1.4.</span> Next meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-next-meeting">
<p>
The next meeting <a href="../../agenda/2023/09-12.html">is scheduled for Tuesday, 12 September 2023</a>.
</p>

<p>
Regrets from JL, SF. Possible regrets from DN.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>NW: We’re overdue for an XSLT focused meeting.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-actions" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-actions"><span class="section-number-3">1.5.</span> Review of open action items <code>[1/8]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-002-10: BTW to coordinate some ideas about improving diversity in the group</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-016-08: RD to clarify how namespace comparisons are performed.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-026-01: MK to write a summary paper that outlines the decisions we need to make on “value sequences”
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>This is related to PR #368: Issue 129 - Context item generalized to context value and
subsequent discussion.</li>
<li>CG: I’ve updated 129, I could go through it if we put it on the agenda</li>
</ul></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449">#449</a></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-039-01: NW to schedule discussion of issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/52">#52</a>, <i>Allow record(*) based RecordTests</i></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-01: NW to use sequences instead of arrays in <code>parse-uri</code> output.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-02: NW to make the query into a simple map with repeated values.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-042-03: NW to consider revisions to query parses.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-technical-agenda" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="technical-agenda"><span class="section-number-2">2.</span> Technical Agenda</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-technical-agenda">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-prs" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-prs"><span class="section-number-3">2.1.</span> Review of open PRs</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-prs">
<p>
Review of open PRs:
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/664">#664</a>: 663 xsl:original keywords

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: I just revised this one editorially. It’s a 1 paragraph change.</li>
<li>Proposal: merge it.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Accepted.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/659">#659</a>: 647: schema location hints

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: A fairly substantial change, needs careful review.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… There are technical changes needed</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/650">#650</a>: 649: fix an xsl:fallback problem

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Essentially a bug fix. Someone discovered that if you write an
xsl:fallback instruction with a select attribute, the attribute is ignored.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… The only slightly controversial thing is a note about XSLT 3.0</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MSM: If I have something in version N+1 and I’m using an N-1
processor, and I have something in that falls back to N, with
another fallback to N-1.</li>
<li>MK: Yes, you can do that by explicitly attaching version
attributes everywhere.</li>
<li>Proposal to leave this a week and then merge it next week.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/640">#640</a>: 601: fn:all → fn:every?

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: This is what we discussed at the end of July. This renames a
function.</li>
<li>Proposal: merge it.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Accepted.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/635">#635</a>: 451: Schema compatibility

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: This belongs with 647 and requires discussion. This has to do
with how validated documents are passed between stylesheets that
import different schemas.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/633">#633</a>: Edits ch. 4.1 through 4.15

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Proposal: merge it.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Accepted.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/631">#631</a>: 600: fn:decode-from-uri

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: This is a proposal for the opposite of encode-for-uri.</li>
<li>MK: Some of my comments were wrong; I think CG has done the right
things.</li>
<li>CG: I mostly described what Java and perhaps Python do.</li>
<li>Proposal to leave this a week and then merge it next week.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/623">#623</a>: 93: sort descending

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Significant new functionality for the fn:sort function.</li>
<li>Proposal to leave this a week and then merge it next week.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/619">#619</a>: XDM ch. 6 minor edits

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Proposal: merge it.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Accepted.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/599">#599</a>: 90: Simplified stylesheets with no xsl:version

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: They’re a bit under used. This tries to make it a slightly
nicer idea. If you eliminate the need to have a version attribute,
then you can also avoid the namespace declaration.</li>
<li>Proposal to leave this a week and then merge it next week.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/538">#538</a>: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Leave for the future</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/529">#529</a>: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to xdm-to-json()

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Leave for the future</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/470">#470</a>: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Leave for the future</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/412">#412</a>: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Turned out to be a lot more difficult than I expected. We’ve
expanded what can match, for example record types, which don’t
form a strict hierarchy. This makes it far from obvious what the
“next match” should. be.</li>
</ul></li>

<li>PR <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pull/368">#368</a>: 129: Context item generalized to context value

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Leave for the future</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-issues" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-issues"><span class="section-number-3">2.2.</span> Review of open issues</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-issues">
<p>
Taking a “strike while the iron is hot” approach, are there any issues
currently being actively discussed in email or comments that would
benefit from meeting time?
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>JK: Traversal of arrays and maps in a convenient fashion is high priority</li>
<li>MK: There’s a bundle of issues in that area</li>
<li>NW: I’ll make that bundle of issues a topic for another meeting.</li>
<li>MK: What it needs to make that discussion successful is a structured
discussion of the issue.</li>
<li>JK: I can try to facilitate that conversation.</li>
<li>NW: Fab!</li>
</ul>

<p>
What about the fold-right question, issue #670?
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: I think that needs distilation to a few specific items that need
to be added.</li>
<li>DN: I would say that I disagree. It was specifically mentioned that
we need short-circuiting and generators.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… The whole thing depends on having a proposal for generators.</li>
<li>… There are many comments, but I think still I’m right about the
core of the proposal.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>CG: DN, I was just asking. I remember that you said this proposal
could show how the problems could be solved with XPath. Is it just
something that we should think about?</li>
<li>DN: I think we need a separate proposal for generators. Right now we
have an example, but not a specification.</li>
<li>RD: Are the issues with fold-right down to the implementation? In
other words, is it possible to create an implementation that
implements fold-right and other functions like that which make use
of things like generators and lazy-evaluation?
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… My understanding was that that would be the case.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>DN: I think one could try to add additional arguments to fold-right,
but this would be a very different function.</li>
<li>RD: I’m not talking about adding things, as it is currently defined
is it possible to implement generator-based or lazy implementations
of them.</li>
<li>DN: The short answer is “no”. It doesn’t accept a function that
generates the input one-by-one.</li>
<li>RD: There’s language in implementation because in languages that
have tail recursion, you don’t necessarily need to say this is a
tail recursive function. The implementation can work that out and
optimize it not to use recursion at all.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… If we say “this is how we support generators” or something like
that, it becomes something that the user has to know about. But if
it’s possible for the implementation to note that an array can be
adapted to a sequence generator, then the performance benefits are
transparent to the user.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<p>
Some further discussion about implementation details and whether or
not users have to know about generators.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>DN: Generator functions in C# need a lot of compiler support. I want
to avoid that.</li>
<li>CG: Lots of things in this issue are really implementation details.</li>
<li>DN: I think the first few comments make the problem clear.</li>
<li>RD: An interesting use case for generators would be the random generator.</li>
<li>CG: Some time ago I added a discussion label. I’ve assigned it to
all issues that are too broad to end up in a proposal. Whenever you
think something is more concrete start a new issue.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-broader-planning" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="broader-planning"><span class="section-number-3">2.3.</span> Broader planning</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-broader-planning">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>NW: This section of the agenda is about having a conversation about
when we can finish.</li>
<li>RD: Rather than specific closing off issues, would it make sense to
have a 4.0 and a future milestone.</li>
<li>CG: I noticed that there are some things in the specification that
haven’t been finalized. We don’t know which features are final. We
should discuss everything that has been added to the specification.</li>
<li>MK: I’ve tried to add issues for all those features and to tag them
as “needs comfirmation”.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Chairs will make sure the “requires confirmation” issues are on an
agenda real soon now.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>RD: We’ve also had previous discussion on record tests.</li>
<li>MK: I think we almost got to the end of record tests, but we didn’t
quite finish. There’s a high degree of consensus.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Anything else for this item?
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: We could prioritize the issue with “proposed 4.0” label.</li>
<li>NW: Yes, good idea.</li>
<li>MK: I think we should try to keep the doors open for a little bit
longer. Certainly until the end of the year and then perhaps start
the new year with a concerted attempt to wrap things up.</li>
<li>NW: Also a good idea! The chairs will return to the “broader
planning” topic in January.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-any-other-business" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="any-other-business"><span class="section-number-2">3.</span> Any other business?</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-any-other-business">
<p>
None heard.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-adjourned" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="adjourned"><span class="section-number-2">4.</span> Adjourned</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-adjourned">
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>