<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<title>QT4 CG Meeting 048 Minutes 2023-10-03</title>
<meta name="generator" content="Org Mode" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="content" class="content">
<h1 class="title">QT4 CG Meeting 048 Minutes 2023-10-03</h1>
<div id="table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<ul>
<li><a href="#minutes">Minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/12]</code></a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#h-670FE983-0B70-4E61-912F-640F6F9830CD">Agenda: Approved</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-3D2855AE-D0B5-470C-B650-EFB72A83FB1E">Last minutes: Approved</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-6CF9B8F6-70C2-42E8-8418-1EC0251213CD">Next meeting: 10 October 2023</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-39B170D3-7C85-4C88-A847-A30410985E7C">Regrets: JL (and 17th)</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-121CF876-BD2D-4D62-820F-7B933315BDCF">Roll call</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-550A2EB4-306A-482C-9F88-68B6D0498D29">1.5. Review of open action items</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-87C4C4BD-D307-4203-928B-8B74B58B0574">1.6. Review of open pull requests and issues related to XSLT</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#h-1B6E9807-A2EF-4832-B996-F110FFB6818F">1.6.1. Blocked</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-3707E401-2FAB-4041-AD8E-57D638ECEEDF">1.6.2. XSLT-related issues</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#h-2476E3A4-7AB9-474C-8122-04FA7CDC9551">Issue #233: Declare the result type of a mode, via @as</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-2A975F7E-9A4C-469B-9102-16E450DC8B88">Issue #172: Record Tests Feature</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#adjourned">Adjourned at 1659</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<p>
<a href="../">Agenda index</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org">QT4CG.org</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard">Dashboard</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues">GH Issues</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls">GH Pull Requests</a>
</p>

<div id="outline-container-minutes" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="minutes">Minutes</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-minutes">
<p>
Approved <a href="./10-10.html">at meeting 049</a> on 10 October 2023.
</p>

<p>
(Lightly edited by NW to simplify publication.)
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-new-actions" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/12]</code></h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-new-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-449">#449</a>. Discussion planned for meeting 049, 10 October 2023.</li>
</ul></li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-045-02: RD to address comments on HTML namespaces in another PR</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-01: MK to continue the work on #129 for the other specs (we accepted #703)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-02: RD to draft the specification changes to allow record(*)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-03: MK to roll back the changes related to default namespaces for elments and types (issue #372)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-04: CG to flesh out changes related to annotations in other parts of the specs</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-05: NW to updated parse-uri to use decode-from-uri (issue #566)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-047-01: MK to make a PR that renames break-when to split-when</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-048-01: MK - to identify what happens with the mode default rule behaviours.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-048-02: MK to clean up the proposal for adding @as to xsl:sequence and elsewhere</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-048-03: MK 5.4. - the section on type patterns - replace 3rd paragraph - belongs with predicate patterns. Fix cut-and-paste issues.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-048-04: MK to use xs: prefix</li>
</ul>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-670FE983-0B70-4E61-912F-640F6F9830CD" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-670FE983-0B70-4E61-912F-640F6F9830CD">Agenda: Approved</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-670FE983-0B70-4E61-912F-640F6F9830CD">
</div>
</div>
<div id="outline-container-h-3D2855AE-D0B5-470C-B650-EFB72A83FB1E" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-3D2855AE-D0B5-470C-B650-EFB72A83FB1E">Last minutes: Approved</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-3D2855AE-D0B5-470C-B650-EFB72A83FB1E">
</div>
</div>
<div id="outline-container-h-6CF9B8F6-70C2-42E8-8418-1EC0251213CD" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-6CF9B8F6-70C2-42E8-8418-1EC0251213CD">Next meeting: 10 October 2023</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-6CF9B8F6-70C2-42E8-8418-1EC0251213CD">
</div>
</div>
<div id="outline-container-h-39B170D3-7C85-4C88-A847-A30410985E7C" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-39B170D3-7C85-4C88-A847-A30410985E7C">Regrets: JL (and 17th)</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-39B170D3-7C85-4C88-A847-A30410985E7C">
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-121CF876-BD2D-4D62-820F-7B933315BDCF" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-121CF876-BD2D-4D62-820F-7B933315BDCF">Roll call</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-121CF876-BD2D-4D62-820F-7B933315BDCF">
<p>
Regrets NW.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Reece Dunn (RD)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Sasha Firsov (SF)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Christian Grün (CG)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Joel Kalvesmaki (JK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Michael Kay (MK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> John Lumley (JL) Scribe.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Dimitre Novatchev (DN)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Wendell Piez (WP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Ed Porter (EP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM). Chair</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW).</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-550A2EB4-306A-482C-9F88-68B6D0498D29" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-550A2EB4-306A-482C-9F88-68B6D0498D29">1.5. Review of open action items</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-550A2EB4-306A-482C-9F88-68B6D0498D29">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-029-07: NW to open the next discussion of #397 with a demo from DN</li>
</ul>
<p>
See PR #449. Discussion planned for meeting 048, 3 October 2023.
</p>
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-045-02: RD to address comments on HTML namespaces in another PR
Still working on it</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-01: MK to continue the work on #129 for the other specs (we accepted #703)
Pending</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-02: RD to draft the specification changes to allow record(*)
Still working on it. MK thought he'd raised a PR on this one.</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-03: MK to roll back the changes related to default namespaces for elments and types (issue #372)
PR raised on this one - pending</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-04: CG to flesh out changes related to annotations in other parts of the specs</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-046-05: NW to updated parse-uri to use decode-from-uri (issue #566)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-047-01: MK to make a PR that renames break-when to split-when
Pending</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-87C4C4BD-D307-4203-928B-8B74B58B0574" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-87C4C4BD-D307-4203-928B-8B74B58B0574">1.6. Review of open pull requests and issues related to XSLT</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-87C4C4BD-D307-4203-928B-8B74B58B0574">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-1B6E9807-A2EF-4832-B996-F110FFB6818F" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="h-1B6E9807-A2EF-4832-B996-F110FFB6818F">1.6.1. Blocked</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-h-1B6E9807-A2EF-4832-B996-F110FFB6818F">
<p>
The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which suggest they aren’t ready for action.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR #650: 649: fix an xsl:fallback problem</li>
<li>PR #470: 369 add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT</li>
<li>PR #412: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match</li>
</ul>

<p>
MK: lots problems with GIT useage to solve the blocking. Maybe associated with authentication. 
Talk to NW when he's well.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-3707E401-2FAB-4041-AD8E-57D638ECEEDF" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="h-3707E401-2FAB-4041-AD8E-57D638ECEEDF">1.6.2. XSLT-related issues</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-h-3707E401-2FAB-4041-AD8E-57D638ECEEDF">
<p>
These issues identify the XSLT-focused changes that have been made to the specifications but which have not been established by the community group as the status quo.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Issue #233: Declare the result type of a mode, via @as</li>
<li>Issue #172: Record Tests Feature</li>
<li>Issue #169: Handling of duplicate keys in xsl:map Enhancement</li>
<li>Issue #168: XSLT Extension Instructions invoking Named Templates</li>
</ul>

<p>
MK: These are in the spec but not realy discussion, so need to decide their fate. 
Has tackled a few by raising PRs. Others on the agenda
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-2476E3A4-7AB9-474C-8122-04FA7CDC9551" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-2476E3A4-7AB9-474C-8122-04FA7CDC9551">Issue #233: Declare the result type of a mode, via @as</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-2476E3A4-7AB9-474C-8122-04FA7CDC9551">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: This is required more as a mode in 3.0+ introduces the distinct
possibility that templates in a mode might be returning
functions,maps, arrays, etc. This can be declared as a default for
the templates within a mode,</li>
<li>JL: It this a default or a constraint on consistency of the return type from anything in the mode.</li>
<li>MK: Both</li>
<li>DN: Should this be mandatory? Perhaps a bit restrictive - what about internal templates (not accessed from outside)?</li>
<li>MSM: The subtyping rule for the @as. In some cases the mode might produce T1 and others T2. Use different modes, or a union type</li>
<li>MK: Or don't use the feature. You might find yourself using more modes than normal.</li>
<li>DN: I would find it too restrictive.</li>
<li>MK: The driving use case was a schema-validator written in XSLT that use maps (records) VERY heavily.
Every template rule in a mode had the same @as.</li>
<li>JK: Note that the question I posed has now been resolved. 
Add a note suggesting feature designed for homogenous modes.</li>
<li>JL: Very much in favour, especially with enclosed modes.</li>
<li>WP: May be difficult if you're working with multiple mode templates.</li>
<li>MSM: Homegeneity - useful if the mapping is of type T to type T, but perhaps less so for types X,Y,Z to type T,
but with homogeneous cases it very much increases type checking.</li>
<li>MK: Result type of a mode DOES invoked coercion, so e.g. @as="string" would invoke stringification
(if permitted) or results.</li>
<li>JL: Built-in actions (e.g. shallow-copy) - does it affect them.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-048-01: MK - to identify what happens with the mode default rule behaviours. 
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: It can also add compile-time checking of xsl:apply-templates.</li>
<li>MSM: Add @as to apply-templates?</li>
<li>MK: There is a proposal to add @as to xsl:sequence and others. Needs some more mulling other</li>
</ul>

<p>
Implicit general approval for letting this be status quo.
</p>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-048-02: MK to clean up the proposal for adding @as to xsl:sequence and elsewhere
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-2A975F7E-9A4C-469B-9102-16E450DC8B88" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-2A975F7E-9A4C-469B-9102-16E450DC8B88">Issue #172: Record Tests Feature</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-2A975F7E-9A4C-469B-9102-16E450DC8B88">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: Given record type is accepted, but we need to look in some more
detail. It is not just relevant to XSLT.</li>
<li>RD: I don't think we've discussed record matching in XSMLT match patterns.</li>
<li>JK: Record constructors in XSLT?</li>
<li>MK: No proposals at present.</li>
<li>MSM: Given not just XSLT - I would like to bring this back in a future meeting.</li>
<li>MK: It should be in the XSLT spec section on patterns. In type patterns particular.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-048-03: MK 5.4. - the section on type patterns - replace 3rd paragraph - belongs with predicate patterns. Fix cut-and-paste issues.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MSM: Can we use ComplexItemType in these patterns</li>
<li>MK: No - they are not an ItemType.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion on the WrappedItemType (type(&#x2026;.)) and short forms.
</p>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-048-04: MK to use xs: prefix
</p>

<p>
Agreed it should be accepted for XSLT.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-adjourned" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="adjourned">Adjourned at 1659</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-adjourned">
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>