<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<title>QT4 CG Meeting 052 Minutes 2023-10-31</title>
<meta name="generator" content="Org Mode" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/meeting/css/htmlize.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../css/style.css"/>
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/img/QT4-64.png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="64x64" href="/img/QT4-64.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/img/QT4-76.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/img/QT4-120.png" type="image/png" />
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/img/QT4-152.png" type="image/png" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="content" class="content">
<h1 class="title">QT4 CG Meeting 052 Minutes 2023-10-31</h1>
<div id="table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<div id="text-table-of-contents" role="doc-toc">
<ul>
<li><a href="#minutes">Minutes</a></li>
<li><a href="#new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/8]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#administrivia">1. Administrivia</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#roll-call">1.1. <span class="todo TODO">TODO</span> Roll call <code>[9/11]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#agenda">1.2. Accept the agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#so-far">1.2.1. Status so far…</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#approve-minutes">1.3. Approve minutes of the previous meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#next-meeting">1.4. Next meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#open-actions">1.5. Review of open action items <code>[8/8]</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#open-pull-requests">1.6. Review of open pull requests and issues</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#blocked">1.6.1. Blocked</a></li>
<li><a href="#merge-without-discussion">1.6.2. Merge without discussion</a></li>
<li><a href="#xslt-focused">1.6.3. XSLT focused</a></li>
<li><a href="#substantive">1.6.4. Substantive PRs</a></li>
<li><a href="#proposed-40">1.6.5. Proposed for V4.0</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#technical-agenda">2. Technical Agenda</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#iss-689">2.1. Issue #689: fn:stack-trace: keep or drop?</a></li>
<li><a href="#iss-130">2.2. Issue #130: New super/union type xs:binary?</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-772">2.3. PR #772: Revise the fn:parse-html rules to make them clearer to follow.</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-770">2.4. PR #770: 566: Use fn:decode-from-uri in fn:parse-uri</a></li>
<li><a href="#pr-753">2.5. PR #753: 65: Allow xmlns="xxx" to NOT change the default namespace for NameTests</a></li>
<li><a href="#h-31F0A813-B552-4136-923B-31C072CD660A">2.6. Issue #651: the name of the fn:log function</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#any-other-business">3. Any other business?</a></li>
<li><a href="#adjourned">4. Adjourned</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<p>
<a href="../">Agenda index</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org">QT4CG.org</a> / <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard">Dashboard</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues">GH Issues</a> / <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/pulls">GH Pull Requests</a>
</p>

<div id="outline-container-minutes" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="minutes">Minutes</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-minutes">
<p>
Approved <a href="./11-07.html">at meeting 053</a> on 7 November 2023.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-new-actions" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="new-actions">Summary of new and continuing actions <code>[0/8]</code></h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-new-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-01: MK to propose text for mutual promotion between xs:hexbinary and xs:base64Binary</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-administrivia" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="administrivia"><span class="section-number-2">1.</span> Administrivia</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-administrivia">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-roll-call" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="roll-call"><span class="section-number-3">1.1.</span> <span class="todo TODO">TODO</span> Roll call <code>[9/11]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-roll-call">
<p>
Regrets from DN. MSM may have to leave early.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Reece Dunn (RD)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Sasha Firsov (SF)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Christian Grün (CG)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Joel Kalvesmaki (JK) [:10-]</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Michael Kay (MK)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> John Lumley (JL)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Dimitre Novatchev (DN)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Wendell Piez (WP)</li>
<li class="off"><code>[&#xa0;]</code> Ed Porter (EP)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> C. M. Sperberg-McQueen (MSM)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> Norm Tovey-Walsh (NW). <i>Scribe</i>. <i>Chair</i>.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-agenda" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="agenda"><span class="section-number-3">1.2.</span> Accept the agenda</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-agenda">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../agenda/2023/10-31.html">the agenda</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-so-far" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="so-far"><span class="section-number-4">1.2.1.</span> Status so far…</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-so-far">

<div id="orga7b9068" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-open-2023-10-31.png" alt="issues-open-2023-10-31.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 1: </span>“Burn down” chart on open issues</p>
</div>


<div id="org5895e1c" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-spec-2023-10-31.png" alt="issues-by-spec-2023-10-31.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 2: </span>Open issues by specification</p>
</div>


<div id="org18d060f" class="figure">
<p><img src="./issues-by-type-2023-10-31.png" alt="issues-by-type-2023-10-31.png" />
</p>
<p><span class="figure-number">Figure 3: </span>Open issues by type</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-approve-minutes" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="approve-minutes"><span class="section-number-3">1.3.</span> Approve minutes of the previous meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-approve-minutes">
<p>
Proposal: Accept <a href="../../minutes/2023/10-24.html">the minutes of the previous meeting</a>.
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-next-meeting" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="next-meeting"><span class="section-number-3">1.4.</span> Next meeting</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-next-meeting">
<p>
The next meeting <a href="../../agenda/2023/11-07.html">is scheduled for Tuesday, 7 November 2023</a>.
</p>

<p>
No regrets heard.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-actions" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-actions"><span class="section-number-3">1.5.</span> Review of open action items <code>[8/8]</code></h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-actions">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-046-01: MK to continue the work on #129 for the other specs (we accepted #703)</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-050-02: MP to attempt to summarize this discussion and identify specific issues</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-01: NW to attempt to craft a new issue for the remaining items in #129
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Overtaken by events</li>
</ul></li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-02: NW to attempt to draft a proposal for fn:invisible-xml</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-03: MK to check that in our view schema components don’t indirectly reference the schema root</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-04: DN to make the point that in simple, static cases, the arrow operators may be better.</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-05: DN to correct the typo in item 3 “could be sequence” =&gt; “could</li>
<li class="on"><code>[X]</code> QT4CG-051-06: MK to help DN with the markup in fn:chain examples.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-open-pull-requests" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="open-pull-requests"><span class="section-number-3">1.6.</span> Review of open pull requests and issues</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-open-pull-requests">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-blocked" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="blocked"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.1.</span> Blocked</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-blocked">
<p>
The following PRs are open but have merge conflicts or comments which
suggest they aren’t ready for action.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-538">#538</a>: 480: Attempt to allow xs:string to be 'promoted to' xs:anyURI</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-761">#761</a>: 554/754 Simplify the new transitive-closure function</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-737">#737</a>: 295: Boost the capability of recursive record types</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-736">#736</a>: 730: Clarify (and correct) rules for maps as instances of function types</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-merge-without-discussion" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="merge-without-discussion"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.2.</span> Merge without discussion</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-merge-without-discussion">
<p>
The following PRs are editorial, small, or otherwise appeared to be
uncontroversial when the agenda was prepared. The chairs propose that
these can be merged without discussion. If you think discussion is
necessary, please say so.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-787">#787</a>: 783(part) - Editorial changes to Serialization spec</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-786">#786</a>: 695: Added xref to fn:slice()</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-785">#785</a>: 777: updated history</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-784">#784</a>: fos xsd</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-782">#782</a>: 469: array:of-members, map:of-pairs: Signatures, Examples</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-778">#778</a>: XQFO edits 5.4-5.6</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: accept these PRs without discussion
</p>

<p>
Approved
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-xslt-focused" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="xslt-focused"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.3.</span> XSLT focused</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-xslt-focused">
<p>
The following PRs appear to be candidates for a future XSLT-focussed
meeting.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-470">#470</a>: 369: add fixed-prefixes attribute in XSLT</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-412">#412</a>: 409, QT4CG-027-01: xsl:next-match</li>
</ul>

<p>
These issues identify the XSLT-focused changes that have been made to
the specifications but which have not been established by the
community group as the status quo.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/742">#742</a>: xsl:function-library: keep, drop, or refine?</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/169">#169</a>: Handling of duplicate keys in xsl:map</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/168">#168</a>: XSLT Extension Instructions invoking Named Templates</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-substantive" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="substantive"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.4.</span> Substantive PRs</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-substantive">
<p>
The following substantive PRs were open when this agenda was prepared.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-775">#775</a>: 517: Reflected Christian Gruen's remarks</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-772">#772</a>: Revise the fn:parse-html rules to make them clearer to follow.</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-770">#770</a>: 566: Use fn:decode-from-uri in fn:parse-uri</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-753">#753</a>: 65: Allow xmlns="xxx" to NOT change the default namespace for NameTests</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-719">#719</a>: 413: Spec for CSV-related functions</li>
<li>PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-529">#529</a>: 528: revision of json(), and renaming to elements-to-maps()</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-proposed-40" class="outline-4">
<h4 id="proposed-40"><span class="section-number-4">1.6.5.</span> Proposed for V4.0</h4>
<div class="outline-text-4" id="text-proposed-40">
<p>
The following issues are labled “proposed for V4.0”.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/716">#716</a>: Generators in XPath</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/479">#479</a>: fn:deep-equal: Input order</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/340">#340</a>: fn:format-number: Specifying decimal format</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/260">#260</a>: array:index-of</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/238">#238</a>: Support Invisible XML</li>
<li>Issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/31">#31</a>: Extend FLWOR expressions to maps</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>


<div id="outline-container-technical-agenda" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="technical-agenda"><span class="section-number-2">2.</span> Technical Agenda</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-technical-agenda">
</div>

<div id="outline-container-iss-689" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="iss-689"><span class="section-number-3">2.1.</span> Issue #689: fn:stack-trace: keep or drop?</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-iss-689">
<p>
See issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/689">#689</a>.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: The way this function is specified now, it’s very implementation specific.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… I think only Saxon woulud be able to do what’s described in the specification.</li>
<li>… For BaseX, we lose a lot of information because of function inlining.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>RD: MarkLogic does have an XML-based stack trace, I’ve generally
found an XML-based trace more useful than a string based one.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… You can do additional processing with the XML</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: I doubt we’ll be able to define interoperable output for stack trace.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>The main idea was to have an interoperable way of invoking it.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>RD: The main thing to get is the inner-most point where the
exception was raised. Other bits of context are useful, but can be
more flexible.</li>
<li>SF: Are you proposing to create a schema for the stack trace, to be
extended by vendors?</li>
<li>RD: That could be useful. MarkLogic includes additional variables
and things, but having a common base of file number, line number,
module path, … would be good.</li>
<li>WP: I think this is more a question of where to draw a line about
conformity of implementations. A strict schema for the output could
be very hard to get. The results are likely to be very
processor-specific. It should allow maximum freedom in what’s
delivered. We could use iXML to go from text back to XML.</li>
<li>JL: I can’t see any point in going out to text and then going back
to structure. The processor has the best context. Are you trying to
debug the processor or the program? Most of the folks debugging a
processor are probably in this room. There are a lot more users
trying to debug their programs. Optimization makes the stack traces
just really hard to get. Who is this for?</li>
<li>RD: To answer the processor or the program, it’s mostly the program.
What you often have is a large, complicated application that you’re
making calls to. Somewhere deep in that application something goes
wrong. When you get it back from your application, “empty sequence
can’t be cast as a int”, you have no idea what happened. Any kind of
stack trace is probably useful.</li>
<li>MSM: I find it helpful to have a way to ask “what’s happening” in my
queries. I find the standard <code>fn:trace()</code> function useful and by
analogy, I think a common way to do stack traces would be useful.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Since a trace message is always directed to me, a human, and not
software, I don’t need standarization across processors.
Regularity is less important.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>SF: The primary consumer for stack traces is not humans, it’s IDEs.
In that context, there are standards. Having a special case for us
in XML could work for us. But it would have to be integrated into
IDEs. Do we want it to be a standard, or let vendors do it? I think
it’s better to make it part of the standard.</li>
<li>CG: I think we all agree that it’s useful to have a look at the
stack trace. Would it also make it part of exceptions, because many
languages let you look at the stack trace in an exception.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Because the languages provide so much freedom for optimization,
I wonder if the output will be useful. If we implemented stack
tracing, then we’d want to suppress some optimizations. That would
mean adding the stack trace function would very likely hide the error!
I’m not sure we’d meet user expectations.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>RD: One of the use cases is in things like logging exceptions from
REST APIs. Where if you just get a message, you don’t have any
context. Being able to get the stack trace, even if it isn’t 100%
perfect, will help in understanding where the error is. You can
provide information for the IDEs as well.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Straw poll: Given the discussion we’ve heard, do you think it’s worth
pursuing a standard stack-trace function, or should we leave it to
processor extensions? In favor: 4. Opposed: 2.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: I think the bias should always be towards not doing something.</li>
</ul>

<p>
The chair is reluctant to call that consensus in either direction.
Cowardly decides to simply leave the issue open for now, but not plan
to discuss it again anytime soon.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-iss-130" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="iss-130"><span class="section-number-3">2.2.</span> Issue #130: New super/union type xs:binary?</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-iss-130">
<p>
See issue <a href="https://github.com/qt4cg/qtspecs/issues/130">#130</a>.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>CG: The idea was we have xs:numeric for all kinds of numbers, I get
repeated questions about why there’s no xs:binary function. Today we
could use a union. From a user perspective, it would be very nice.</li>
<li>NW: MK, you proposed an alternative.</li>
<li>MK: We could make them mutually promotable. That achieves much of
the same objective and seems to be more consistent with how we’ve
addressed similar issues.</li>
<li>JL: The only difference between the two binary formats is how
they’re parsed and “serialized”. I’m tempted to agree with MK.</li>
<li>MSM: Point of information: if we made it a union type, would either
order work?</li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of whether or not the two types are disjoint.
Conclusion: there is some overlap.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MSM: Could you ever get the wrong answer if it was a union type?</li>
</ul>

<p>
Consensus (the scribe believes) was “yes”.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>RD: The issue is what happens if you do xs:binary on an ambiguous
string.</li>
<li>MSM: What do you get if you cast a numeric to a string?</li>
<li>MK: I don’t recall, but there is an order.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-052-01: MK to propose text for mutual promotion between xs:hexbinary and xs:base64Binary
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-772" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-772"><span class="section-number-3">2.3.</span> PR #772: Revise the fn:parse-html rules to make them clearer to follow.</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-772">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-772">#772</a>
</p>

<p>
RD suggests delaying this until after comments on the PR have been addressed.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-770" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-770"><span class="section-number-3">2.4.</span> PR #770: 566: Use fn:decode-from-uri in fn:parse-uri</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-770">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-770">#770</a>
</p>

<p>
NW reviews the PR.
</p>

<p>
Proposal: Merge this PR and continue to work on the tests.
</p>

<p>
Agreed.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>WP: There’s no verb in item 37.</li>
<li>NW: Thank you.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-pr-753" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="pr-753"><span class="section-number-3">2.5.</span> PR #753: 65: Allow xmlns="xxx" to NOT change the default namespace for NameTests</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-pr-753">
<p>
See PR <a href="https://qt4cg.org/dashboard/#pr-753">#753</a>
</p>

<p>
MK reviews the PR.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: This is an opportunity to fix an XQuery issue.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Adding the keyword <code>fixed</code>. A <code>fixed</code> default namespace in your
element declarations don’t effect the default namespace for
elements and typed.</li>
<li>… The other part is that you do want the default namespace
declaration to effect nested element constructors.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: In element constructors, we change what happens when you say
<code>xmlns=</code> something.</li>
</ul>

<p>
MK summarizes the new rules…
</p>

<p>
Proposal: merge this PR?
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-h-31F0A813-B552-4136-923B-31C072CD660A" class="outline-3">
<h3 id="h-31F0A813-B552-4136-923B-31C072CD660A"><span class="section-number-3">2.6.</span> Issue #651: the name of the fn:log function</h3>
<div class="outline-text-3" id="text-h-31F0A813-B552-4136-923B-31C072CD660A">
<p>
CG summarizes the issue.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: The semantics are very, very close to xsl:message</li>
<li>MK: I’d want to have a single API that captures the message</li>
<li>JK: It would be nice if we could reconcile the two mechanisms and have message for both.
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>… Can the output of xsl:message be promoted to item or sequence in
XSLT and try to merge them</li>
</ul></li>
<li>MK: For simplicity, we should be producing a string here.</li>
</ul>

<p>
NW suggests that we’re drifting towards fn:message.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>SF: How does log-level (error, warning, etc.) fit in?</li>
</ul>

<p>
General consensus that we don’t have log levels, and that may be a
good reason not to use fn:log.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>WP: Is the real blocker here that the semantics wrt XSLT?</li>
<li>MK: Is it close enough to get benefit from name recognition or far
enough away that it generates confusion.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Proposal: we call it fn:message instead of fn:log?
</p>

<p>
Accepted.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>SF: What about actual level-based long functionality?</li>
</ul>

<p>
Agreement that that is a separate issue.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-any-other-business" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="any-other-business"><span class="section-number-2">3.</span> Any other business?</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-any-other-business">
<ul class="org-ul">
<li>MK: What can we do about blocked PRs? One common problem appears to
be overlapping edits to the changes appendix.</li>
</ul>

<p>
MK proposes using editorial notes at the point of change. That seems
to win some support, let’s try that.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>JK: One thing that could be useful would be to do a walkthrough
about what to do when editing.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Nods of agreement.
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>NW: Yes, we have more editors now. Perhaps we should have an
editor’s meeting. I’ll investigate.</li>
</ul>

<p>
ACTION QT4CG-052-02: NW to consider how to schedule an “editor’s meeting”
</p>

<ul class="org-ul">
<li>NW: Thank you all for a year of hard work!</li>
</ul>

<p>
Some discussion of a face-to-face meeting. Perhaps colocated with XML
Prague in June?
</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="outline-container-adjourned" class="outline-2">
<h2 id="adjourned"><span class="section-number-2">4.</span> Adjourned</h2>
<div class="outline-text-2" id="text-adjourned">
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>